# 2. ClickCounter Website Installation

Setup and installation must be done from the Administrator account.

The installation files could come from a USB drive or a file download.  For this manual, it is assumed to be in the `C:\YIC\Setup\` directory.

## 1. Directory creation

Create a directory `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter\`

## 2. Copy the app files

Copy `\Setup\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter\*` to `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter\`

It will popup a dialog box saying `need to provide administrator permission`.  Press `Continue` to copy.

## 3. Modify IIS

The IIS needs .NET Core Hosting Bundle

- Download and install from <https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0>\
Note that it has to be 6.0 as the ClickCounter website code was written with .NET 6.0.
- Restart IIS by right clicking on the `"Hostname" (Hostname\User)` on the left pane of the `Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager`, selecting `Stop`, and then `Start`.

We need to disable the default website and then create ClickCounter website as the default.

- Go to the `Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager` app (type `IIS` in the taskbar search box)
- On the left pane, expand `"Hostname" (Hostname\User)` > `Sites`
- Right click on `Default Web Site`, select `Edit Bindings...`
- In the `Site Bindings` dialog box, click on the entry line (Type: `http`), press `Edit` button
- Set port value to something unused, like 8202 (8201 is used by the ClickCounter service, do not use 8201), and close
- Right click on `Sites`, select `Add Website`
- In the `Add Website` dialog box, enter
  - Site name: `ClickCounter`
  - Physical path: `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter\`
  - Port: `80`
- On the left pane, click on the `ClickCounter` just created under `Sites`
- In the center pane with the title `ClickCounter Home`, double click the `Authentication` icon.
- Right click `Anonymous Authentication`, select `Edit`.
- Select `Application pool identity`.  Select `OK`.

The `Application pool identity` of ClickCounter needs to have permission to access the files in `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter`.

- Right click on  `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter` > Security tab
- Press `Edit` button
- Press `Add` button
- Enter `IIS AppPool\ClickCounter` and press `Check Names` button
- Now it should show `ClickCounter` underscored.  Press `OK`
- The Permissions dialog box should show that `ClickCounter` has permissions for `Read & execute`, `List folder contents`, and `Read`.  Select `OK`` to exit all dialog boxes.
- Restart IIS by right clicking on the `"Hostname" (Hostname\User)` on the left pane of the `Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager`, selecting `Stop`, and then `Start`.

Now <http://localhost> (or `http://"Hostname"`) should show ClickCounter website.

## 4. Directory sharing

Enable sharing for the directories

- `C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter\wwwroot\Report\` shared as `ClickReport`\
`C:\inetpub\wwwroot\ClickCounter\wwwroot\Archive\` shared as `ClickArchive`\
  with appropriate Permissions (Full Control or Read/Write) for everyone or individual users as needed.
- The sharing makes it easy to copy or delete files from the directories.
