# 0. General Overview

The ClickCounter System consists of:

- ClickCounter Website
- ESP32 Boards
- ClickCounter service (daemon process)
- ClickTally service (daemon process)

1. ClickCounter Website
  
   - `http://"Hostname"` (or `http://localhost` on the installed computer) will access the ClickCounter website.
   - It shows all the current and archived reports and logs  as hyperlinks.
   - Clicking on the report name will open a new tab to show the content.

2. ESP32 Boards

   - ESP32 boards with attached switch buttons are connected to the local network via Wi-Fi, and sends TCP/IP messages to ClickCounter service on each click of the button.

3. ClickCounter Service

   - A Windows computer running the ClickCounter service (daemon) receives TCP/IP messages from the ESP32 boards and saves them.

4. ClickTally Service

   - The same Windows computer runs the ClickTally service to process the saved data by ClickCounter.  It updates the report files.

This chapter explains the ClickTally service.

ClickTally is a Windows service (daemon) that reads the data generated by ClickCounter and writes webpage reports.

Windows installation of ClickTally involves a WWW server setup, command-line execution of Windows service creation, and supporting directories creation and file copy.

Since ClickTally is written as a service, it runs silently in the background without a user interface until stopped manually.  The result of processing can be viewed with the website `http://"Hostname"`.

And it is configured to start automatically when the computer turns on.  There is no need to manually run the service after the computer has been turned off and on.

ClickTally has several sources of configuration data as it needs to be adjusted according to the factory floor operating setup. Some are updated when the service starts, meaning it does not change often.  Other information is updated at the start of every working day, meaning it reflects the factory operation parameters of the day.

These configuration input data need to be set correctly to produce an accurate report.

Input:

- `//"Hostname"/YIC/Config/`
- `//"Hostname"/YIC/ClickCounter/Data/`
- `//"Hostname"/ClickTemplate/`

Output:

- `//"Hostname"/ClickReport/`
- `//"Hostname"/ClickArchive/`
- `//"Hostname"/YIC/ClickTally/Data/`
- `//"Hostname"/YIC/ClickTally/Logs/`
