# 1. ClickTally Installation

Setup and installation must be done from the Administrator account.

The installation files could come from a USB drive or a file download.  For this manual, it is assumed to be in the `C:\YIC\Setup\` directory.

## 1. Copy the app files

There are two directories for ClickTally in the setup file:

- `\Setup\Program Files\YIC\ClickTally\`
- `\Setup\YIC\Config\`

Copy `\Setup\Program Files\YIC\ClickTally\*` to `C:\Program Files\YIC\ClickTally\`\
The files are

- `appsetting.json`
- `ClickTally.exe`
- `ClickTally.pdb`

It will popup a dialog box saying `need to provide administrator permission`.  Press `Continue` to copy.

Copy `\Setup\YIC\Config\*` to `C:\YIC\Config\`\
The files are

- `DaysOfWeek.json`
- `ESP32ToStation.cache.json`
- `GoogleSheetsID.json`
- `TimeSlot.json`

## 2. Directory creation and sharing

Create directories

- `C:\YIC\Template\`
- `C:\YIC\ClickTally\`

Enable sharing for the following directoies with appropriate Permissions (Full Control or Read/Write) for everyone or individual users as needed

- `C:\YIC\Template\` shared as `ClickTemplate`\
  To load template Excel files
- `C:\YIC\` shared as `YIC`\
  To handle the Config, Data, and Log directories.\
  (Already done in the ClickCounter setup)

## 3. Install `ClickTally` as Windows Service (daemon)

- Type `cmd` (or `Command Prompt`) in the taskbar search box, matching apps will appear.
- Right click on `Command Prompt`, select `Run as administrator`.
- Run
  ```BASH
  > sc.exe create "ClickTally" ^
    binpath= ^
      "C:\Program Files\YIC\ClickTally\ClickTally.exe" ^
    start=delayed-auto
  ```
  to create `ClickTally` service.
   - `start=delayed-auto` makes `ClickTally` start automatically when the computer reboots.
   - `delayed-` means it starts _after_ critical system services start first.
   - Creating does not actually run the service, it needs to be started.
- Run
  ```BASH
  > sc.exe start "ClickTally"
  ```
  to start running the service
- Other control commands are
  - `sc.exe stop "ClickTally"` to stop
  - `sc.exe delete "ClickTally"` to remove from the services list. A service needs to be stopped before deleted.
- Running `ClickTally` creates directories `C:\YIC\ClickTally\Data` and `C:\YIC\ClickTally\Logs`

## 4. Control `ClickTally` using the Services app

- Go to `Services` app (type `Services` in the taskbar search box).
- The list contains `ClickTally`.
- Right click on `ClickTally` to see `Start`, `Stop`, `Pause`, `Resume`, `Restart`.
