# 0. General Overview

The ClickCounter System consists of:

- ClickCounter Website
- ESP32 Boards
- ClickCounter Service (daemon process)
- ClickTally Service (daemon process)

1. ClickCounter Website
  
   - `http://"Hostname"` (or `http://localhost` on an installed computer) will access the ClickCounter website.
   - It displays all reports and logs as hyperlinks.
   - Clicking on the report name will open a new tab displaying the content.

2. ESP32 Boards

   - ESP32 boards with attached switch buttons are connected to the local network via Wi-Fi, and send TCP/IP messages to ClickCounter service each time the button is clicked.

3. ClickCounter Service

   - A Windows computer running the ClickCounter service receives TCP/IP messages from ESP32 boards and stores them.

4. ClickTally Service

   - The same Windows computer runs ClickTally service to process data saved by the ClickCounter service and update report files.

This chapter explains the ESP32 Boards.

Installing the ESP32 software requires a USB connection from Windows to the ESP32 board, and an Arduino IDE running on Windows to modify the ESP32 code to specify the Wi-Fi login ID/password and hostname to connect to the ClickCounter service.

Warning:

- If the wire connecting button switch to ESP32 board has loose contact, it will sometimes generate a fast sequence of clicks when the switch is clicked only once. This sequence is different from the actual press contact signal and cannot be suppressed by software. Therefore, a solid contact is required at the terminals of the button switch and the ESP32.

Input:

- Click signal from the button switch connected to the ESP32 board

Output:

- TCP/IP signal to a host computer via Wi-Fi
