# 1. ESP32_click_counter Installation

Setup and installation must be done from an Administrator account.

The installation files can come from a USB drive or a download. For this tutorial, it is assumed to be located in the `C:\YIC\Setup\` directory.

## 1. Copy the source files

There is one directory for ESP32_click_counter in the setup file:

- `\Setup\YIC\ESP32_click_counter\`

and 9 files in the directory

- `config.cpp`
- `config.h`
- `ESP32_click_counter.h`
- `ESP32_click_counter.ino`
- `interrupt.cpp`
- `interrupt.h`
- `WiFi_login_info.h`
- `WiFi_TCP.cpp`
- `WiFi_TCP.h`

Copy `\Setup\YIC\ESP32_click_counter\*` to `C:\YIC\ESP32_click_counter\`

## 2. Windows 11 driver update

For Windows 11, _not for windows 10_, a UART driver update is needed (as of Octorber 2023) for the ESP32 board to communicate with Windows 11.

1. Download the latest CP210x Universal Windows Driver\
<https://www.silabs.com/developers/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers?tab=downloads>
2. Unzip the driver file to a directory
3. Inside the directory, right click the `silabser.inf` file and select Install

## 3. Arduino IDE

If Arduino IDE is not installed, download and install it

- <https://www.arduino.cc/en/software>

To open the Arduino IDE, double click `C:\YIC\ESP32_click_counter\ESP32_click_counter.ino`.

Inside the Arduino IDE, all files should be present as tabs.

### General setup

On the menu:\
File > Preference (Ctrl-Comma) > Settings  > Settings tab

- Sketchbook location:\
  `C:\YIC\ESP32_click_counter\`
- Select all checkboxes

### Install ESP32 board

Open the Boards Manager in one of two ways:

1. On the menu:\
   Tools > Board > Boards Manager... (Ctrl-Shift-B)
2. On the left vertical toolbar of the Arduino IDE, press the second button that looks like an expansion card inside the computer

The Boards Manager pane will open between the left vertical toolbar and the code editor.

At the top of the Boards Manager, in the textbox `Filter your search...`, type `esp32`. Two or more items will appear.

Install `esp32 by Espressif Systems`

On the menu, select:\
Tools > Board > esp32 > ESP32 Dev Module (not ESP32S2 Dev Module)

### Install Vector library

Open the Library Manager in one of two ways:

1. On the menu:\
  Tools > Manage Libraries... (Ctrl-Shift-I)
2. On the left vertical toolbar of the Arduino IDE, press the third button that looks like standing books

The Library Manager pane will open between the left vertical toolbar and the code editor.

At the top of Library Manager, in the textbox `Filter your search...`, type `vector`. Several items will appear.

Install `Vector by Peter Polidoro`

### Connect ESP32

Physically connect the ESP32 board to the computer via USB-micro USB cable, then set the following items:

- Select COM port\
  This selects the communication port to ESP32.

  On the menu, select:\
  Tools > Port > COM#

  There might be more than one COM# to choose from. Unplug the ESP32 board to see which one disappears, then plug it back to find the COM number assigned to the ESP32.

- Serial Monitor window\
  Prints values from the ESP32 board via serial communication channel of the COM port.

  On the menu, select:\
  Tools > Serial Monitor (Ctrl-Shift-M)

  - Set COM baud rate\
    The correct serial communication speed must be selected for the Serial Monitor output.

    On the dropdown menu to the right side of Serial Monitor window, select `115200 baud`.

  - Toggle Timestamp\
    Displays the time a message is received from the ESP32.

    On the Serial Monitor window, there are three button icons to the right side. Click on the second icon to turn the clock image to gray.
