# 5. ESP32_click_counter User Guide

## 5.0 Arduino IDE

When the computer is awaken from sleep, the serial communication might be frozen.

- Close and open the Serial Monitor window with the upper right magnifying glass button.


## 5.1. C++ variables setting

The ESP32 is used for two tasks

1. Detect the switch button press
2. Transmit the press signal to ClickCounter computer

The C++ program variables used by these two tasks are in two files: `config.cpp` and `config.h`.

### Switch button press

For the switch button press detection, we need to specify the pin connected to the switch.  It is in `config.h`

```C++
//
// ESP32 pin ID
//
const uint8_t pinNumberButton = 27; 
```

### Signal transmission

To transmit signal to ClickCounter computer, we need Wi-Fi loginID/password and the host computer name/port.

In `config.h`, two constants are defined.

- `PORT_NUMBER` is 8201 for ClickCounter.
- `MAX_LOGIN_INFO_SIZE` is used to specify the Wi-Fi loginID/password list entry count.

```C++
//
// Wi-Fi and host PC info variables
//
const int PORT_NUMBER = 8201; 
const int MAX_LOGIN_INFO_SIZE = 3;
```

In `config.cpp`

- `HostInfo` type is used to declare a variable that contains host computer name and port number.
- `LoginInfo` array contains a list of Wi-Fi loginID/password and host computer in the network.

```C++
//
// Host computer name and port number
//
HostInfo host1("hostname1", PORT_NUMBER);
HostInfo host2("hostname2", PORT_NUMBER);
HostInfo host3("hostname3", PORT_NUMBER);

//
// WiFi login/pw and ClickCounter host to connect on the network
//
LoginInfo loginInfoStore[MAX_LOGIN_INFO_SIZE] {
  // ssid     password               host
  {"WiFi1",   "enter password here", &host1},
  {"WiFi2",   "enter password here", &host2},
  {"WiFi3",   "enter password here", &host3}
};
```

Note how `MAX_LOGIN_INFO_SIZE` is used above.  It has to match the list entry count.

ESP_click_counter will run through each item in the `loginInfoStore` list, trying to connect for 20 seconds each.  Once it connects to one Wi-Fi the loop stops.

### Review of user-specified variables

In sum, the variables that ___need to be user-specified___ for both button switch connection and signal transmission are

In `config.h`

```C++
// ESP32 pin ID
const uint8_t pinNumberButton = 27;

// Wi-Fi and host PC info variables
const int MAX_LOGIN_INFO_SIZE = 1; 
```

`PORT_NUMBER` need not change unless the ClickCounter on Windows changes the port number assignment.

In `config.cpp`

```C++
// Host computer name and port number
HostInfo host1("hostname1", PORT_NUMBER);

// Wi-Fi login/pw and ClickCounter host to connect on the network
LoginInfo loginInfoStore[MAX_LOGIN_INFO_SIZE] {
  // ssid     password               host
  {"WiFi1",   "enter password here", &host1},
};
```

## 5.2. Run the program

### Arduino IDE settings review

In the directory `C:\YIC\ESP32_click_counter\`, double lick `ESP32_click_counter.ino` to open the Arduino IDE.

The following items must be set before running the program. They tend to be unselected when environment changes, hence need to be checked often.

- Board selection\
  Tools > Board > esp32 > ESP32 Dev Module
- COM port selection\
  Tools > Port > COM#
- Serial Monitor window\
  Tools > Serial Monitor (Ctrl-Shift-M)
  - COM baud rate\
    115200 baud
  - Toggle Timestamp\
    Click the clock icon to grey mode

### Compilation

Compile the program in one of two ways:

1. On the menu:\
   Sketch > Verify/Compile (Ctrl-R)
2. On the top toolbar, click on the first button showing the check sign.

Compilation messages are shown on the `Output` window.

If a board is not selected, it will result in an error:

```CMD
Compilation error:
Missing FQBN (Fully Qualified Board Name)
```

### Upload and execute

If it compiles, upload the program in one of two ways:

1. On the menu:\
   Sketch > Upload (Ctrl-U)
2. On the top toolbar, click on the second button showing the right arrow.

Upload messages are shown on the `Output` window.

If the ESP32 is not connected, will result in an error:

```CMD
A fatal error occurred: Could not open COM3, the port doesn't exist
Failed uploading: uploading error: exit status 2
```

After uploading, the Serial Monitor window will show an output similar to the follwing:

```CMD
01:35:30.331 -> Connecting to WiFi1 network... 0 second(s)
01:35:30.331 -> Connecting to WiFi1 network... 1 second(s)
01:35:30.331 -> Connecting to WiFi1 network... 2 second(s)
01:35:30.331 -> Connecting to WiFi1 network... 3 second(s)
01:35:30.331 -> Wi-Fi connection successful.
01:35:30.331 -> IP address: 10.216.77.137
01:35:30.331 -> Interrupt capture task ESP32 core 1
01:35:30.331 -> TCP send task ESP32 core 0 Serial 246863502882720
```

On each click of the button, the Serial Monitor window will show the click data in the following format

```CMD
01:19:29.777 -> firstTriggerTime 12341292
01:19:29.777 -> lastTriggerTime  12341437
01:19:29.777 -> Data 246863502882720_c1_f12341292_r12341437
```

If the connection to Wi-Fi or host machine fails, it will print an error message

```CMD
01:19:29.784 -> TCP connection failed hostname1 8201
```
