# 0. General Overview

The ClickCounter System consists of:

- ClickCounter Website
- ESP32 Boards
- ClickCounter service (daemon process)
- ClickTally service (daemon process)

1. ClickCounter Website
  
   - `http://"Hostname"` (or `http://localhost` on the installed computer) will access the ClickCounter website.
   - It shows all the current and archived reports and logs  as hyperlinks.
   - Clicking on the report name will open a new tab to show the content.

2. ESP32 Boards

   - ESP32 boards with attached switch buttons are connected to the local network via Wi-Fi, and sends TCP/IP messages to ClickCounter service on each click of the button.

3. ClickCounter Service

   - A Windows computer running the ClickCounter service (daemon) receives TCP/IP messages from the ESP32 boards and saves them.

4. ClickTally Service

   - The same Windows computer runs the ClickTally service to process the saved data by ClickCounter.  It updates the report files.

This chapter explains the ClickCounter service.

Windows installation of the ClickCounter service is a straightforward setup of Windows for TCP/IP connection and the command-line execution of Windows service creation.

Since the ClickCounter service is a daemon, it runs silently in the background without a user interface until it is manually stopped.

And it is configured to start automatically when the computer turns on.  There is no need to separately run the process after the computer has been turned off.

Input:

- ESP32 board TCP/IP messages

Output:

- `//"Hostname"/YIC/ClickCounter/Data/`
- `//"Hostname"/YIC/ClickCounter/Logs/`
