# 2. ClickCounter Installation

Setup and installation must be done from the Administrator account.

The installation files could come from a USB drive or a file download.  For this manual, it is assumed to be in the `C:\YIC\Setup\` directory.

## 1. Directory creation and sharing

Create directory `C:\YIC\`.

Enable sharing for the directory `C:\YIC\` as `YIC` with Change/Write permissions for the users.

Create directory `C:\YIC\ClickCounter\`.

## 2. Copy the app files

There is one directory for the ClickCounter app in the setup directory:

- `\Setup\Program Files\YIC\ClickCounter\`

and three files in the directory

- `appsetting.json`
- `ClickCounter.exe`
- `ClickCounter.pdb`

Copy `\Setup\Program Files\YIC\ClickCounter\*` to `C:\Program Files\YIC\ClickCounter\`

It will popup a dialog box saying `need to provide administrator permission`.  Press `Continue` to copy.

If `ClickCounter` service is already running, it will pop up a dialog box saying `the folder or a file in it is open in another program`. It needs to run `sc.exe stop "ClickCounter"`. See below for the Windows service stop command.

## 3. Install `ClickCounter` as Windows Service (daemon)

- Type `cmd` (or `Command Prompt`) in the taskbar search box, matching apps will appear.
- Right click on `Command Prompt`, select `Run as administrator`.
- Run
  ```BASH
  C:\> sc.exe create "ClickCounter" ^
       binpath= ^
          "C:\Program Files\YIC\ClickCounter\ClickCounter.exe" ^
       start=delayed-auto
   ```
  to create `ClickCounter` service.
   - `start=delayed-auto` makes `ClickCounter` start automatically when the computer reboots.
   - `delayed-` means it starts _after_ critical system services start first.
   - Creating does not actually run the service, it needs to be started.
- Run
  ```BASH
  > sc.exe start "ClickCounter"
  ```
  to start running the service
- Other control commands are
  - `sc.exe stop "ClickCounter"` to stop
  - `sc.exe delete "ClickCounter"` to remove from the services list. A service needs to be stopped before deleted.
- Running `ClickCounter` creates directories `C:\YIC\ClickCounter\Data` and `C:\YIC\ClickCounter\Logs`

## 4. Control `ClickCounter` using the Services app

- Go to the Windows `Services` app (type `Services` in the taskbar search box).
- The Services list contains `ClickCounter`.
- Right click on `ClickCounter` to see `Start`, `Stop`, `Pause`, `Resume`, `Restart`.
