# 3. ClickCounter User Guide

If the ClickCount service has been manually stopped, start again by executing

```BASH
C:\> sc.exe start "ClickCounter"
```

in the Admin command-line window.

Because it was created with the option `start=delayed-auto`, it will start automatically when the computer boots up.

It can be stopped with the command

```BASH
C:\> sc.exe stop "ClickCounter"
```

ClickCounter listens to port __8201__ to receive the click data transmitted from ESP32 boards, and appends them to the file:

`C:\YIC\ClickCounter\Data\clicks_YYYY-MM-DD-HH-MM.txt`

The time unit in the filename is minutes. Each file will contain 1 minute of data, so that ClickTally can read and __delete__ files once a minute.

ClickTally will store all data read from `clicks_YYYY-MM-DD-HH-MM.txt` in 
`C:\YIC\ClickTally\Data\clicks_YYYY-MM-DD.txt`,i.e., in the daily log. Therefore data is not lost.

Note that a network directory for `C:\YIC\` was enabled as `YIC` during the installation, hence the data file can be accessed as `\\"Hostname"\YIC\ClickCounter\Data\clicks_YYYY-MM-DD-HH-MM.txt` from other computers.

The stored data is in the format
| ESP32 ID | Date | Time | Count | Press time | Release time |
|----------|------|------|-------------|------------|--------------|
| 22554540881824 | 2023-10-02 | 21:37:55.842 | 2 | 102380390 | 102380820 |

- _Count_ is the total number of button presses since the boot time of the ESP32 device.
- _Press time_ and _Release time_ are in milliseconds on the ESP32 clock.

ClickCount service status can be checked with:

- `http://"Hostname"`\
  The ClickCounter main webpage displays all report and log webpages. The log page will contain the status of both ClickCount and ClickTally services.
- `\\"Hostname"\YIC\ClickCounter\Logs\log_YYYY-MM-DD.txt`\
  For more error messages and detailed information about ClickCounter.
